in some ways there are important
parallels between the situation for
veganism right now in 2017 and the
situation for gay rights many many
decades ago the situation for gay rights
when it was at the stage of millions of
people sitting down at millions of
dinner tables with their own parents
with their own grandparents and saying
look there's something I have to tell
you and fundamentally people at that
early stage had to explain the concept
of gayness itself to a public who in
large part heated feared failed to
understand and fail to understand why it
would ever be made public why wouldn't
this be secret why wouldn't this be
something totally private that you'd
never even mentioned right and that too
had to be explained that had to be
articulated and many people may look
back on the history of gay rights and
imagined the most important part of the
story you know was this or that Street
protests people holding signs in the
streets I don't think so I think there
was a profound and really kind of
philosophical engagement of you know
people with their own parents people
with their employers people with their
co-workers saying look this is who I
really am and you may not understand
that and this is why you need to know
this is why it needs to be public why it
can't just be private I can't just be a
secret so step one of bearings argument
in this epoch-making debate between
vegan gains and bearing over the ethics
of veganism itself the core the core
issue of veganism step one of his
argument actually is that morality is a
totally personal private and subjective
matter many people felt that way about
sexuality 50 years ago even 20 years ago
many of you remember those debates in
Canadian politics there were people who
just said your sexuality is your private
business so I'm not going to judge you
and you're not and as long as you don't
judge me we don't have a problem we
don't have a cough
life doesn't work that way it was not
sufficient to simply tell homosexuals to
stay in the closet and keep their
private lives private and allow the
world to roll on why well you'd have a
situation where a schoolteacher is
employed by a conservative school board
maybe the Catholic school board and the
school teacher is fired when somebody
finds out that the schoolteacher has a
same-sex relationship it's a man with a
boyfriend or a woman with a girlfriend
or whatever it is okay his problems are
the gay teacher say it's a gay man his
problem isn't just a legal battle with a
school board his problem is that he
stands alone if you live in a closeted
society if you live in a society where
your sexual morality simply consists of
mutual ignorant and mutual indifference
you can never make that progress that we
have made in Canada in the last 50 years
the situation for homosexuals is
completely transformed completely and
there are openly gay school teachers in
Canadian school boards who know they
will not be fired for their sexuality
for having a boyfriend I mean a
girlfriend whatever their case may be
and if they are they know that they will
not stand alone they probably know
within the same school other openly gay
professionals they know within the same
city other openly gay professionals
right and that's that's crucial right so
bearings perspective starts by saying
that morality is a totally personally
totally part private totally subjective
matter and that he's not gonna judge
vegans harshly and vegans shouldn't
judge him and that's it and the truth is
morality is precisely the opposite
morality is intensely public and
intensely political and is a never
ending open-ended struggle to transform
the world and transform yourself step 2
of bearings argument is in three words I
don't care
and I'm gonna tell you in this video how
I deal with that argument face to face
when people say it to me sincerely
because this happens sometimes rarely
sometimes I'm talking to someone and
they're not just being a jerk but their
their response to the general question
of ecology animal rights veganism future
of how humans and animals are going to
share the planet and even the health of
the diet all the time if they say to me
sincerely I don't care I say I
understand but somebody has to and
here's where I take it you don't care
about sewage treatment
somebody has to it's crucially important
in every major city in the world there's
a minority of people no matter how small
who are really scrutinizing where the
sewage goes and where your drinking
water comes from it's crucially
important that there's a passionate
minority of people focus on the question
of sewage treatment anytime you have
several million people sharing a sewage
system and sharing one drinking water
source you don't care you have the
luxury of not caring somebody else is
fighting that struggle for you and you
should be able to recognize that you
benefit from it all ecology works like
that
who cares about river pollution who
cares about air pollution maybe not you
maybe not you baron maybe your
indifference is completely sincere and
maybe you really believe that this life
of mutual ignorance and mutual
indifference is virtuous but my response
to that is simply to point out to you
that on the contrary if we live in a
crowded society we live in a society not
of isolated individuals but of millions
in fact we depend on one another
I don't care in a practical sense I
can't care I'm too busy about nuclear
waste treatment and management I
different points in my life I actually
have done some research on it I've done
some reading I've taken interests
different points in my life I have but
that's not an issue I'm gonna lobby City
Hall and that's not a sham
looking into and there are extreme and
fascinating case studies of this again
I've done some reading over the years in
England I read this fantastic and
hilarious case today force in Japan we
had this example that blew up in our
faces and the whole world stood there
astonished at just how high-stakes
the question of nuclear safety can be in
energy production you know there's one a
test site
she's an ecologic 'old is a stir in the
north western states I did some reading
about it Wow fascinating fascinating ok
now I I would not say that I don't care
I do care I do care I just don't have
enough time and energy to to work on
every important issue in the world ok
but if someone says to me that they
don't care I can say to them isn't it a
good thing that somebody does imagine
just how dangerous this situation would
be if nobody cared and now what is your
attitude gonna be towards someone else
when you when you meet a person who has
that passion who has that concern and
who has those expertise because they
care why are you telling them that you
don't care instead of thank you for
caring because I can't you can't do
everything
barring and I can't either I've got to
make choices if I'm studying Cambodia
and human rights issues in Cambodia I'm
not studying farm conditions in Texas I
can't do both
I did spend a couple years study in
Cambodia that's why I choose that that
example ok the fundamental question
is of what kind of a person you want to
be and that's why I never engage these
issues in terms of shallow crass logical
fallacies I don't think that vegan gains
vegan gains take it in the direction he
took in a real life situation face to
face I don't think that he could have
won and there's another channel called
ask yourself who took it even further in
that direction
ask yourself tries to make this into a
bait debate about how how precisely how
logically do you define a human being as
different from an animal in order to
justify balance against animals as
different from human beings you know we
we have a we have a saying in political
science well I don't know the definition
of pornography
but I know it when I see it most people
this argument goes nowhere what exactly
is the difference the definition of a
human being
what exact trait does a human being have
that an animal acts that justifies the
move yeah well they may not know how to
define a human being but they know it
when they see it if you can engage
someone on the meaningful question what
kind of a person do you want to be what
kind of society do you want to be a part
of and what direction you on this a way
that's great and if you encounter
somebody who can't can't engage in that
discussion that level with you there's
no point in you having a deep discussion
while they're having a shot at one
stupidity is real stupidity was a huge
factor in this debate one side was
manifestly much much stupider than the
other so there were limits to where this
conversation would go but when I
encountered that attitude of I don't
care I don't challenge them on the fact
that they don't care I don't say you
should care what I challenge them on is
why are you proud that you don't care
why are you being self-righteous about
it because there's a sense in which I
don't care and I can't care about
nuclear safety there's a sense in which
I very very few people can
care and get involved with sewage
treatment or other ecological problems
that that impact your life directly
drinking water quality can I trust the
tap water when I turn the tap okay
everywhere I go I try to research that I
tried to research that here in China and
Victoria in Cambodia on and on
everywhere I've lived I try to take it
as far as I can okay not everybody can
care but that doesn't mean that you
should feel proud of yourself because
you don't care it sure doesn't mean you
should be self-righteous in your
ignorant and your indifference you
should feel some sense of appreciation
and some sense of gratitude towards the
tiny minority of people who have the
passion who had the engagement and who
developed the expertise because they
really are making the world a better
place for all of us